## Returns of StaticBackend

After archiving the project in June 2024, I've decided in January 2026 to restart working on SB. The project and all its components will see frequent updates, especially now that I'm using it in production again.

## In this release

Of course it's mainly cleaning things up. As you might guess, resuming work on a project after 1.5 years of inactivity involves a bit of chore maintenance. But again, Go is shining being Go and overall things are pretty much in a working state.

### New features

**Abstracting the blob storage**: Instead of having a hard dependency on AWS S3, StaticBackend is now using `minio` to save/delete objects to blob storage, so S3 compatible services like DigitalOcean Spaces are now supported. Here's the required environment variables:

```sh
S3_ACCESSKEY=your-access-key
S3_SECRETKEY=your-secret-key

S3_CDN_URL=https://your-bucket.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com
S3_REGION=us-east-1
S3_BUCKET=your-bucket-name
S3_ENDPOINT=nyc3.digitaloceanspaces.com
```

**Email attachments**: It's now possible to send emails with attachments. There are two options: either you supply the URL for the attachments or pass them as bytes.

**Local email provider**: In addition to AWS SES and dev (prints to the console), there's now a 3rd email provider `local` which requires Mailpit running. That way it's possible to inspect sent emails. Look at the `docker-compose-unittest.yml` which now includes Mailpit for the tests to pass successfully.

### Overall dependencies updates

Like I was saying, the first task of re-activating a project is taking care of dependencies. Notably, the sqlite driver was updated, the AWS SDK was updated. both caused breaking changes, so that's how I remember them.

### The CLI and core releases

I've now taken the time to create release GitHub actions for both projects, so it will be easier for me to release new versions. Again, just having more energy at the moment, so hopefully I can set up everything to have fun again growing the project.

As always, thanks for the support. The Discord server is gone, and the project main website changed TLD. I lost the .com, so it's now [https://staticbackend.dev](https://staticbackend.dev).

__Speaking of GH action__: We're now at v1.6.3 because of me and GH action ;).

